# text_classification_project


For my two source bodies, I choose poems written by Female poets and male poets in India during the struggle for independence. The new texts I compared them with was with male and female poets from Britain and America when they were going through war times and independence struggles. 

The results of my comparison was very interesting with the writing style of Female poets of Britain being more like Male poets of India, Male Poets of Britain  being more similar to Male poets of India, Female Poets of America  being more similar to the Female Poets of India and Male Poets of America  being more similar to  the  Male poets of India. 

The results from my other feature: words with the maximum probability of being a common word, were also very interesting with the most common words from each of the poets being:

Female poets from India:{'love': 24, 'my': 26, 'rights': 19, 'responsibility': 20, 'lord': 50, 'alas': 12, 'you': 15, 'your': 18}
Male poets from India:{'freedom': 14, 'my': 19, 'i': 17, 'lord': 18, 'protect': 12}
Female poets from Britain:{'you': 224, 'i': 188}
Male poets from Britain:{'we': 24, 'you': 25, 'lord': 24}
Female poets from America:{'his': 6, 'he': 7, 'rights': 35, 'responsibility': 12, 'you': 6, 'freedom': 7}
Male poets from America:{'lord': 48, 'war': 13, 'protect': 24}

It was interesting to observe that:
- the female poets from India and America have a high count of using the words 'rights' and  'responsibility'


methods in the program:
- word_frequencies: uses the text file with the specified filename to create and returna dictionary of word frequencies for words in that text file. input: filename is a string specifying the name of a text file, which we assume is in the same folder as this Python file.
- create_dictionary: create_dictionary(filename) that takes a string representing the name of a text file, and that returns a dictionary of key-value pairs in which: each key is a word encountered in the text file and the corresponding value is a list of words that follow the key word in the text file.
- generate_text: function generate_text(word_dict, num_words) that takes as parameters a dictionary of word transitions (generated by the create_dictionary function) named word_dict and a positive integer named num_words. The function should use word_dict to generate and print num_words words. 
- clean_text: takes a string of text txt as a parameter and returns a list containing the words in txt after it has been “cleaned”. 
- stem: accepts a string as a parameter. The function should then return the stem of s. The stem of a word is the root part of the word, which excludes any prefixes and suffixes.
- compare_dictionaries: take two feature dictionaries d1 and d2 as inputs, and it should compute and return their log similarity score.
- add_string: adds a string of text s to the model by augmenting the feature dictionaries defined in the constructor.
- add_file: adds all of the text in the file identified by filenameto the model. It should not explicitly return a value.
- save_model: saves the TextModel object self by writing its various feature dictionaries to files. 
- read_model: reads the stored dictionaries for the called TextModel object from their files and assigns them to the attributes of the called TextModel.
- similarity_scores: computes and returns a list of log similarity scores measuring the similarity of self and other – one score for each type of feature (words,word lengths, stems, sentence lengths, and your additional feature).
- classify: that compares the called TextModel object (self) to two other “source” TextModel objects (source1 and source2) and determines which of these other TextModels is the more likely source of the called TextModel.
